# KingstonianTransit
Analyzation tool for Kingston Transit TSP systems
Utilities Kingston has set a transportation target of increasing ridership from 5% to 15% by 2034 . To reach this goal, the city has invested in a transit signal priority (TSP) system. The TSP system utilizes EMTRAC technology which can reduce the idling time with red truncations and green extensions. EMTRAC senses when a bus is near the intersection and implements the aforementioned techniques to decrease route times. In addition to the shorter ride times, Utilities Kingston also hopes the system will reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The goal of this project is to analyze the impact of the TSP system on travel time, fuel consumption, and the related greenhouse gas emissions for the express buses, on the 501 and 502 routes. The analysis will focus on the intersections of Princess Street with  Gardiners Road, Midland Avenue, and Bayridge Drive, with the potential to project the results over the whole route. 
In addition to Utilities Kingston, other stakeholders that need to be considered include bus riders, car and truck drivers, pedestrians and cyclists, municipal taxpayers, and the businesses surrounding the intersection . 
Utilities Kingston has set a transportation target of increasing ridership from 5% to 15% by 2034 . To reach this goal, the city has invested in a transit signal priority (TSP) system. The TSP system utilizes EMTRAC technology which can reduce the idling time with red truncations and green extensions. EMTRAC senses when a bus is near the intersection and implements the aforementioned techniques to decrease route times. In addition to the shorter ride times, Utilities Kingston also hopes the system will reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
The goal of this project is to analyze the impact of the TSP system on travel time, fuel consumption, and the related greenhouse gas emissions for the express buses, on the 501 and 502 routes. The analysis will focus on the intersections of Princess Street with  Gardiners Road, Midland Avenue, and Bayridge Drive, with the potential to project the results over the whole route. 
In addition to Utilities Kingston, other stakeholders that need to be considered include bus riders, car and truck drivers, pedestrians and cyclists, municipal taxpayers, and the businesses surrounding the intersection . The ranking in Table 1 will help us create an evaluation matrix to provide recommendations for the client. 
The TSP system should be able to increase transit ridership, reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the city, and decrease the time for the bus to complete its route. The system should accomplish these objectives with guidance from our recommendations. 
Utilities Kingston requested for analysis and recommendations for implementing the TSP system. The full analysis is easily achievable in the given time frame. Therefore, in addition to the analysis, the public’s opinion will also be included in the modelling process using a survey  . 

Code:
